Update Windows build instructions & contributing docs (#4858)
Chatterino/chatterino2: BUILDING_ON_WINDOWS.md

1. Visit the [Qt Open Source Page](https://www.qt.io/download-open-source).
2. Scroll down to the bottom
3. Then select "Download the Qt Online Installer"
4. Within the installer, Qt will prompt you to create an account (to access Qt downloads).

> 5. When you get to the Installation Folder section within the Qt installer, you can create an empty folder named 'Qt' within your 'C:' directory and install Qt within that folder. (You cannot install Qt in the 'Program Files' folder because of the blank space (' ') between 'Program' and 'Files' and you cannot install Qt directly in 'C:'.)

Reviewer: > and you cannot install Qt directly in 'C:

![image](https://github.com/Chatterino/chatterino2/assets/41973452/7d64bb9d-91b6-4b5f-a0b1-c63e374b7655)

Author: I have a 'Qt' folder in 'C:' as well but I believe I had to create it manually. It wouldn't let me pick 'C:' as a location, so I picked the newly created 'Qt' folder I made as the location.

Author: Ah I think I know what happened. I wrote down the error message when it happened and it said something about how the install directory is completely deleted. 

I went to another computer to download Qt and it turns out the directory is originally defaulted to 'C:\Qt' but when I pressed the 'Program Files' folder it changed to 'C:\Program Files' and when I pressed back on 'C:' that Qt folder was gone.

Author: > > and you cannot install Qt directly in 'C:
> 
> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41973452/271879712-7d64bb9d-91b6-4b5f-a0b1-c63e374b7655.png)

Thanks for spotting that.

#### When prompted which components to install:

1. Unfold the tree element that says "Qt"

> 2. Unfold the top most tree element (latest stable Qt version, e.g. `Qt 6.5.3`)

Reviewer 2: I know this is a bit late, but Qt 6.6.0 will be out tomorrow (most likely), and we noticed a bug in Qt 6.5.3 [not in 6.6], so I think it would be better to use 6.6.0 here, but it's not that big of a deal.

#### When prompted which components to install:

1. Unfold the tree element that says "Qt"

> 2. Unfold the top most tree element (latest stable Qt version, e.g. `Qt 6.5.3`)

Reviewer 2: If we're advising this version, we should update the third and fourth point as well:

```
3. Under this version, select the following entries:
   - `MSVC 2019 64-bit` (or alternative version if you are using that)
   - `Qt 5 Compatibility Module`
   - `Additional Libraries` > `Qt Image Formats`
4. Under the "Developer and Designer Tools" tree element (at the bottom), ensure that `Qt Creator X.X.X` and `Debugging Tools for Windows` are selected. (they should be checked by default)
```

Reviewer 3: Fixed in [`5f1a46c` (#4858)](https://github.com/Chatterino/chatterino2/pull/4858/commits/5f1a46c4e8ecf8f7421187f75d76dbc33c1974e8) and [`87bc2ac` (#4858)](https://github.com/Chatterino/chatterino2/pull/4858/commits/87bc2ac4a303122e9e5f4dad9d4ce499b7191cf8)

3. Under this version, select the following entries:
   - `MSVC 2019 64-bit` (or alternative version if you are using that)
4. Under the "Tools" tree element (at the bottom), ensure that `Qt Creator X.X.X` and `Debugging Tools for Windows` are selected. (they should be checked by default)
5. Continue through the installer and let the installer finish installing Qt.

Note: This installation will take about 2 GB of disk space.

Once Qt is done installing, make sure you add its bin directory to your `PATH` (e.g. `C:\Qt\6.5.3\msvc2019_64\bin`)

<details>
   <summary>How to add Qt to PATH</summary>
   
1. Type "path" in the Windows start menu and click `Edit the system environment variables`.
2. Click the `Environment Variables...` button bottom right.

> 3. In the `System variables` section, scroll down until you find `Path` and double click it.

Reviewer 2: This is personal preference: Qt doesn't have to be added for all users (system-wide), so the `User variables` are fine as well.

```suggestion
3. In the `User variables` (scoped to the current user) or `System variables` (system-wide) section, scroll down until you find `Path` and double click it.
```

> 4. Click the 'New' button top right and paste in the file path for your Qt installation (e.g. `C:\Qt\6.5.3\msvc2019_64\bin` by default).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click the `New` button top right and paste in the file path for your Qt installation (e.g. `C:\Qt\6.5.3\msvc2019_64\bin` by default).
```

We should be consistent.

Note: This installation will take about 2 GB of disk space.

Once Qt is done installing, make sure you add its bin directory to your `PATH` (e.g. `C:\Qt\5.15.2\msvc2019_64\bin`)
<details>
   <summary>How to add Qt to PATH</summary>
   
1. Type "path" in the Windows start menu and click `Edit the system environment variables`.
2. Click the `Environment Variables...` button bottom right.
3. In the `System variables` section, scroll down until you find `Path` and double click it.

> 4. Click the 'New' button top right and paste in the file path for your Qt installation (e.g. `C:\Qt\5.15.2\msvc2019_64\bin` by default).

Reviewer 3: Should probably be whatever Qt 6 path is relevant now

Author: Ok, I changed the other Qt paths too. You can unresolve this if there is still an issue.

Install [conan 2](https://conan.io/downloads.html) and make sure it's in your `PATH` (default setting).

<details>

>    <summary>How to add conan 2 to PATH</summary>

Reviewer 2: This adds python's scripts to `PATH`. Maybe this should read something like "Installing with pip" and include the `pip install`. Furthermore, I thought default python installations would add themselves to `PATH` by default.

Author: Yeah, maybe its pip specific. I don't know if default python installations add themselves to PATH by default, I think I manually added conan 2 to PATH (don't remember if it was there before). 

I'm probably just going to commit Felanbird's suggestion to remove it after I ask about something. 

The reason I haven't committed it yet because I'm not sure if I should resolve a conversation (by doing a commit) when I still have a question about a related topic.

4. Press the 'New' button near the top right to create a new environment variable.
5. Open up your terminal with the Visual Studio environment variables (e.g. `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022`) and type "where conan" to find the file path (the folder that contains the conan.exe) to add.
6. Add conan 2's file path (e.g. `C:\Users\willg\AppData\Roaming\Python\Python311\Scripts`) to the blank text box that shows up.
7. Press the "OK" button.

</details>

Then in a terminal, configure conan to use `NMake Makefiles` as its generator:

1. Generate a new profile  
   `conan profile detect`

#### Build

Open up your terminal with the Visual Studio environment variables (e.g. `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022`), cd to the cloned chatterino2 directory and run the following commands:

1. `mkdir build`
1. `cd build`
1. `conan install .. -s build_type=Release -c tools.cmake.cmaketoolchain:generator="NMake Makefiles" --build=missing --output-folder=.`
1. `cmake -G"NMake Makefiles" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE="conan_toolchain.cmake" -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="C:\Qt\5.15.2\msvc2019_64" ..`

> 1. `cd ..`

Author: Based on my recollection, I couldn't use 'nmake' in the build folder.

Below is what I wrote for Felanbird's comment on the same 'cd ..':

"If I recall correctly, it wouldn't let me use 'nmake' in the build folder. I had to be in the chatterino2 folder for it to work.

Right now, when I try to do 'nmake' in the build folder, I get
'NMAKE : fatal error U1064: MAKEFILE not found and no target specified
Stop.'

However, I'm not managing to build successfully at the moment (I keep getting LINK and NMAKE fatal errors that I have not currently figured out) even with 'nmake' in the chatterino2 folder because I get 'fatal error' for LINK and NMAKE.

My best guess is because I messed up something with either the GitHub branches, git commands, and/or something in VS Code (which I use over Visual Studio Community right now) when I tried to get the copy of the original repository in my fork without being 'commits ahead'."

Is that just a me issue?

> 1. `cd ..`

Reviewer 2: Oh, I overlooked that (or I think it didn't show on mobile), let's discuss this there then.

> 1. `cd ..`

Author: I removed the 'cd ..'

Install [conan 2](https://conan.io/downloads.html) and make sure it's in your `PATH` (default setting).

<details>
   <summary>Adding conan to your PATH if you installed it with pip</summary>

_Note: This will add all Python-scripts to your `PATH`, conan being one of them._

> 1. Type "path" in the start menu and click on the "Edit the system environment variables" result that shows up (this should open up the 'System Properties' window with the 'Advanced' tab selected).
> 2. Press on the "Environment Variables..." button near the bottom right of the 'System Properties' window to open up the 'Environment Variables' window.
> 3. Within 'Environment Variables', look at the bottom half of the window where it lists 'System variables' and double click on the variable named 'Path' to open up the 'Edit environment variable' window.
> 4. Press the 'New' button near the top right to create a new environment variable.

Reviewer 2: This should use the same wording and formatting as the first points when adding Qt (it's the same process)

```suggestion
1. Type "path" in the Windows start menu and click `Edit the system environment variables`.
2. Click the `Environment Variables...` button bottom right.
3. In the `System variables` section, scroll down until you find `Path` and double click it.
4. Click the `New` button top right and paste in the file path for your Qt installation (e.g. `C:\Qt\6.5.3\msvc2019_64\bin` by default).
```

> 5. Open up your terminal with the Visual Studio environment variables (e.g. `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022`) and type "where conan" to find the file path (the folder that contains the conan.exe) to add.

Reviewer 2: * VS environment variables are not needed.
* `where.exe` should be used to support both `cmd` and PowerShell in one command.

```suggestion
5. Open up a terminal `where.exe conan` to find the file path (the folder that contains the conan.exe) to add.
```

6. Add conan 2's file path (e.g. `C:\Users\example\AppData\Roaming\Python\Python311\Scripts`) to the blank text box that shows up. This is your current Python installation's scripts folder.

> 7. Press the "OK" button.

Reviewer 2: Same as above.

```suggestion
7. Click `Ok`
```

Install [conan 2](https://conan.io/downloads.html) and make sure it's in your `PATH` (default setting).

<details>
   <summary>How to add conan 2 to PATH</summary>
   
1. Type "path" in the start menu and click on the "Edit the system environment variables" result that shows up (this should open up the 'System Properties' window with the 'Advanced' tab selected).
2. Press on the "Environment Variables..." button near the bottom right of the 'System Properties' window to open up the 'Environment Variables' window.
3. Within 'Environment Variables', look at the bottom half of the window where it lists 'System variables' and double click on the variable named 'Path' to open up the 'Edit environment variable' window.
4. Press the 'New' button near the top right to create a new environment variable.
5. Open up your terminal with the Visual Studio environment variables (e.g. `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022`) and type "where conan" to find the file path (the folder that contains the conan.exe) to add.
6. Add conan 2's file path (e.g. `C:\Users\willg\AppData\Roaming\Python\Python311\Scripts`) to the blank text box that shows up.
7. Press the "OK" button.

</details>

> 

Author: Yeah, you're right. I didn't even notice the "default setting". xD 

Also do you know if the 'where conan' command only works if conan 2 is in PATH?

If so, maybe it could be used to verify conan 2 is in PATH.

Install [conan 2](https://conan.io/downloads.html) and make sure it's in your `PATH` (default setting).

<details>
   <summary>Adding conan to your PATH if you installed it with pip</summary>

_Note: This will add all Python-scripts to your `PATH`, conan being one of them._

1. Type "path" in the Windows start menu and click `Edit the system environment variables`.
2. Click the `Environment Variables...` button bottom right.
3. In the `System variables` section, scroll down until you find `Path` and double click it.

> 4. Click the `New` button top right and paste in the file path for your Qt installation (e.g. `C:\Qt\6.5.3\msvc2019_64\bin` by default).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click the `New` button top right.
```

I did too much copy-paste.

1. `cd build`
1. `conan install .. -s build_type=Release -c tools.cmake.cmaketoolchain:generator="NMake Makefiles" --build=missing --output-folder=.`
1. `cmake -G"NMake Makefiles" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE="conan_toolchain.cmake" -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="C:\Qt\5.15.2\msvc2019_64" ..`

> 1. `cd ..`

Author: If I recall correctly, it wouldn't let me use 'nmake' in the build folder. I had to be in the chatterino2 folder for it to work. 

Right now, when I try to do 'nmake' in the build folder, I get 
'NMAKE : fatal error U1064: MAKEFILE not found and no target specified
Stop.'

However, I'm not managing to build successfully at the moment (I keep getting LINK and NMAKE fatal errors that I have not currently figured out) even with 'nmake' in the chatterino2 folder because I get 'fatal error' for LINK and NMAKE. 

My best guess is because I messed up something with either the GitHub branches, git commands, and/or something in VS Code (which I use over Visual Studio Community right now) when I tried to get the copy of the original repository in my fork without being 'commits ahead'.

> 1. `cd ..`

Reviewer 2: > Right now, when I try to do 'nmake' in the build folder, I get
'NMAKE : fatal error U1064: MAKEFILE not found and no target specified
Stop.'

I usually use ninja as the generator, but this shouldn't be different to nmake. From my experience, this happens when `CMake` fails to configure the project correctly.

For a debug build, the following should be enough. Make sure you remove the `build/CMakeCache.txt` if you want a clean reconfiguration.
```
chatterino2/build> conan install .. --output-folder=. -b missing -c tools.cmake.cmaketoolchain:generator=Ninja -s build_type=Debug
chatterino2/build> cmake -G"NMake Makefiles" -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE="conan_toolchain.cmake" -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="C:\Qt\5.15.2\msvc2019_64" ..
```

> I keep getting LINK and NMAKE fatal errors that I have not currently figured out

Linker errors shouldn't be related to the build folder you're in. If you can paste the error here, we might be able to figure this out.

> 1. `cd ..`

Author: Ok I used the two commands you listed
`chatterino2/build> conan install .. --output-folder=. -b missing -c tools.cmake.cmaketoolchain:generator=Ninja -s build_type=Debug`
and
`chatterino2/build> cmake -G"NMake Makefiles" -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE="conan_toolchain.cmake" -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="C:\Qt\5.15.2\msvc2019_64" ..`
and I deleted the CMakeCache.txt file and it 'Built target chatterino'.

I also tried the regular commands I used before (in the 'BUILDING_ON_WINDOWS.md' file) and it built successfully so I don't have linker errors anymore. Maybe because of the deleted CMakeCache.txt file?

Thanks for the help in fixing my error.

(Also the 'nmake' works in the build directory now so there's no need for 'cd ..').

> 1. `cd ..`

Author: I removed the 'cd ..'

> 1. `cd ..`

Reviewer 2: > Maybe because of the deleted CMakeCache.txt file?

That might have been the case. When you switch branches (or similar) that had more complex changes to the `CMakeLists.txt` (i.e. not just adding files), then CMake can sometimes get confused as old values from `CMakeCache.txt` aren't up-to-date anymore.

> 1. `cd ..`

Author: Ah okay, thanks for the information.
